The Three Little Pigs
Once upon a time there were three little pigs. One day their mother said, "You are old now. You can make your own houses." Mrs. Pig kissed each little pig on the nose. "Take care! There is a big bad wolf about. Build your houses good and strong, and NEVER NEVER let that bad old wolf through the door." The three little pigs said, "Bye, bye mom!" and off they went. The first little pig saw a farmer with some straw. So he said to the farmer, "Please give me some straw to build a house." The farmer said, "Yes" and gave the little pig a big bundle of straw. The little pig said, "Thank you!" and he made a house of straw. One day the clever big bad wolf came to the little pig`s house of straw. He knocked on the door and said, "Little pig, little pig, let me come in." The first little pig was not stupid, so he said, "No! Not by the hair of my chinny, chin chin. I will not let you in." The wolf said, "Then I'll huff and I'll puff and I'll blow your house in!" So he huffed and he puffed and he blew the house in. He ate up the first little pig. So the second little pig saw some campers collecting sticks for their fire. So he said to the campers, "Please give me some sticks to build a house!" The campers said, "Yes" and gave the little pig a lot of sticks. The little pig said, "Thank you!" and he made a house of sticks. The next day the clever big bad wolf came to the little pig`s house of sticks. He knocked on the door and said, "Little pig, little pig, let me come in." The second little pig was not stupid, so he said, "No! Not by the hair of my chinny, chin chin. I will not let you in." The wolf said, "Then I'll huff and I'll puff and I'll blow your house in!" So he huffed and he puffed and he blew the house in. He ate up the second little pig. The third little pig saw some builders, unloading bricks. So he said to the builders, "Please, give me some bricks to build a house!" The builders said, "Yes" and gave the little pig a lot of bricks. The little pig said, "Thank you!" and he made a house of bricks. The next day the clever big bad wolf came to the little pig's house of bricks. He knocked on the door and said, "Little pig, little pig, let me come in." The third little pig was not stupid, so she said, "No! Not by the hair of my chinny, chin chin. I will not let you in." The wolf said, "Then I'll huff and I'll puff and I'll blow your house in!" So he huffed and he puffed and puffed and he huffed and he huffed and he puffed, but he could not blow the house in. The third little pig was very happy. The big bad wolf was very tired and angry. He looked at the little pig and suddenly he had an idea. He said very friendly, "Little pig, I know where you can find yummy carrots!" "Where?" said the little pig. The wolf said, "I will show you the field with the carrots by the river tomorrow morning." The little pig said "Yes." But she was a clever little pig. In the night when the moon and the stars were shining the little pig woke up and went to the fields with carrots. She was very happy. On the next morning the wolf came to the little pig's house. But the little pig was already eating the yummy carrots. The wolf was very angry. He looked at the little pig and suddenly he had an idea! He said very friendly, "Little pig, I know where you can find yummy apples." "Where?" said the little pig. The wolf said, "I'll show you the garden with the apples on the farm tomorrow morning. The little pig said, "Yes." But it was a very clever pig. In the early morning the little pig went to the garden with the apples and climbed on the tree. The wolf came. The little pig was very frightened. The wolf was angry. The little pig had an idea! She said to the wolf, "Eat one apple!" The little pig threw an apple very far away. The wolf ran after the apple. The little pig climbed down the tree and ran as fast as she could to her house of bricks. The wolf came to the little pig's house. He was very, very, very angry. He looked at the little pig and he had a new idea. He said, "Little pig, there is a fair in town this afternoon. Let's go to the fair at 3 o'clock." The little pig said, "Yes." But she was a very clever pig. At 2 o'clock the little pig went to the fair and bought a big cooking pot. On the way home she saw the big bad wolf. She was very afraid. So the little pig jumped into the cooking pot to hide. Suddenly the pot started to roll down the hill. The wolf saw the pot rolling towards him. He ran for his life. Later he went to the little pig's house of bricks. The wolf was red hot angry. He screamed, Little pig, you have tricked me once with the carrots. You have tricked me twice with the apples. You have tricked me three times with going to the fair. But you will not trick me with a fourth time. That's it I will come down the chimney. I will eat you up!" The wolf climbed on the roof of the little pig's house of bricks. He jumped into the chimney. But she was a very clever pig. She made a fire and put the big cooking pot with water on the fire. The wolf came down the chimney and SPLASH! he fell into the hot bubbling water. And that was the end of the big bad wolf. The little pig lived happily ever after in her little brick house.
